 Dorothy lived in the midst of the great Kansas prairies, with Uncle Henry, who
was a farmer, and Aunt Em, who was the farmer's wife. Uncle Henry, and Aunt Em
had a big bed in one corner, and Dorothy a little bed in another corner. There
was no garret at all, and no cellarâ€”except a small hole dug in the ground,
called a cyclone cellar, where the family could go in case one of those great
whirlwinds arose, mighty enough to crush any building in its path. When Dorothy
stood in the doorway and looked around, she could see nothing but the great gray
prairie on every side. When Dorothy, who was an orphan, first came to her, Aunt
Em had been so startled by the child's laughter that she would scream and press
her hand upon her heart whenever Dorothy's merry voice reached her ears; and she
still looked at the little girl with wonder that she could find anything to
laugh at. Toto was not gray; he was a little black dog, with long silky hair and
small black eyes that twinkled merrily on either side of his funny, wee nose.
From the far north they heard a low wail of the wind, and Uncle Henry and
Dorothy could see where the long grass bowed in waves before the coming storm.
In the middle of a cyclone the air is generally still, but the great pressure of
the wind on every side of the house raised it up higher and higher, until it was
at the very top of the cyclone; and there it remained and was carried miles and
miles away as easily as you could carry a feather. He ran about the room, now
here, now there, barking loudly; but Dorothy sat quite still on the floor and
waited to see what would happen. Once Toto got too near the open trap door, and
fell in; and at first the little girl thought she had lost him. Hour after hour
passed away, and slowly Dorothy got over her fright; but she felt quite lonely,
and the wind shrieked so loudly all about her that she nearly became deaf. As it
was, the jar made her catch her breath and wonder what had happened; and Toto
put his cold little nose into her face and whined dismally. Dorothy sat up and
noticed that the house was not moving; nor was it dark, for the bright sunshine
came in at the window, flooding the little room. When these people drew near the
house where Dorothy was standing in the doorway, they paused and whispered among
themselves, as if afraid to come farther. Dorothy was an innocent, harmless
little girl, who had been carried by a cyclone many miles from home; and she had
never killed anything in all her life.